# Demonstrating the Logjam attack on weak DH groups

## Motivation
Most of the important communications nowadays have transported over the web. With the advent of asymmetric key cryptography (DH), secure communication over the web has become a possibility. However, that was not always the case. Though the older versions of TLS appeared secure,they were actually vulnerable. Therefore the motivation of this project was
* To understand the working of cryptographic protocols such as TLS and implement DHKE
* To understand how asymetric key cryptography works together with symmetric key cryptography such as DHKE and AES
* To understance prime factorisation(Number Field Sieve Algorithm) and implement the logjam attack to understand the vulnerabilties of TLS. 

The understanding of these core components of web communications may possibly lead to new ideas regarding security of primes for post quantum cryptography and more secure web cryptographic protocols which can have huge impact especially with the more and more personal data being transported across the web like banking services.  


## Design
The design choice was made for demonstration purposes. We give the user freedom to choose the prime (must be 30, 60, 90, 100 or 155 digits for CADO-NFS. Set to 155 for TLS) and the ability to set the generator (preferably 2 or 5). We also allow the user to witness the complete demonstration by running one file for ease of use. The secret keys are generated by the server and the user has no control over that. Furthermore, all experimentations and results are stored for the user to experiment with the different components of this project such as the MITM proxy server and wireshark with detailed descriptions of how to set them up. To give practical viewpoint, we run this attack on older apache servers on TLSv1 and an older version of firefox which supports this TLS version. 

## Development 
All the code is written in python. Some of the calculations during the testing phases of the discrete log problem was written in sage but was later converted to python. The development was done on a 60 cpu cluster on google cloud and two personal laptops.   


## Running the main simulation

In the project root, run

```bash
# install cado-nfs
git clone https://gitlab.inria.fr/cado-nfs/cado-nfs
# install dependencies (in a virtual environment)
pip install -r requirements.txt
# Run the main driver script
python mitmattack/driver.py
```

If you want to play around with the work on the MITMproxy (in `./archive/`),

- set up a local network proxy on your computer and forward requests to port `8080`.
- upload the mitm certificate `./archive/mitm/mitmproxy_cert` to your browser, so it can be a "trusted' third party for https traffic.
- Download and extract the `mitmproxy` [binaries](https://mitmproxy.org/) to `./archive/mitm/mitm_binaries`
- To examine incoming traffic, use `cd ./archive/mitm/mitm_binaries && ./mitmproxy`
- To run a script which defines custom `mitmproxy` addons (ours dump TLS data and bind to various TLS event handlers) run, `cd ./archive/mitm/mitm_binaries && ./mitmdump -s ../mitm.py`

## Running firefox

untar firefox

```bash
tar -xvf firefox-38.0.5.tar.bz2
cd firefox
./firefox -no-remote
```

## Get certificate of a website from terminal:

```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect www.google.com:443 </dev/null
```

## Google cloud Apache server setup

In a GCE instance,

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y install apache2 snapd
sudo systemctl status apache2
cd /etc/apache2
# sudo chmod +rw apache2.conf
sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
sudo snap install --classic certbot
sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
sudo certbot --apache # make sure to have a domain name with a proper A-record for resolving the DNS. It's crypto-project.xyz here
```

when setting up https with Let's encrypt you should see something like :

```
Deploying certificate
Successfully deployed certificate for crypto-project.xyz to /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default-le-ssl.conf
Congratulations! You have successfully enabled HTTPS on https://crypto-project.xyz
```

- edit `/etc/apache2/mods-available/ssl.conf`, adding the line `SSLProtocol -all +TLSv1` (remove(`-`) all and enable(`+`) only TLSv1 )
- edit `/etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default-le-ssl.conf`, adding the lines `SSLEngine on`, `SSLProtocol -all +TLSv1` (remove(`-`) all and enable(`+`) only TLSv1 )
- make same changes as above to `/etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-apache.conf.`

## refs

- https://www.tenable.com/plugins/nessus/84581
- https://github.com/concise/logjam-attack-poc
- https://download-installer.cdn.mozilla.net/pub/firefox/releases/38.0.5/linux-x86_64/en-US/

## Tricks:

- search all files in a folder for a keyword: `grep -rnw '/etc/apache2' -e 'SSLProtocol'` ([ref](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16957078/6274300))
- restart and view status : `sudo systemctl restart apache2 && sudo systemctl status apache2`

## Research:

- https://docs.mitmproxy.org/stable/ proxy for mitm attacks and intercepting requests. From
- `sudo mv mitmproxy-ca-cert.pem /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/mitmproxy.crt`
- `sudo update-ca-certificates`
- Install and upload certificate to firefox (http://mitm.it/#Firefox)
- X.509 certificates for authentication are sometimes also called SSL Certificates/ server certs
- packet capture and analysis: `sudo wireshark`
- custom server ip: `35.239.113.22:443`, wireshark filter : `ip.addr == 35.239.113.22`
- `python mitmattack/driver.py`

# NFS:

The actual command is in the driver script. These are for reference only.

- `./cado-nfs.py 90377629292003121684002147101760858109247336549001090677693 -t all > ../nfs_output.txt`

```bash
191907783019725260605646959711 # 98 bit prime
./cado-nfs.py -dlp -ell 101538509534246169632617439 target=129821646158317470002802307860 191907783019725260605646959711
```
